.TH FNSCRAPER 1 "2026-07-20" "fnscraper" "Festival Profitability Scraper"
.SH NAME
fnscraper \- find the most profitable festivals for a salsa vendor within driving range
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B python -m fnscraper
.RI [ options ]
.br
.B python -m fnscraper best
.RI [ options ]
.br
.B python -m fnscraper apply
.RI [ file ]
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B fnscraper
scans upcoming fairs, festivals, expos, and craft shows on
festivalnet.com within a 10-hour drive of Zanesville, Ohio, scores each one
by out-of-pocket cost versus expected salsa sales, and opens an interactive
picker so you can choose which shows to pursue.
.PP
When the scrape finishes in a real terminal, a scrolling checkbox list opens,
sorted by state, date, then cost. Each row shows the estimated cost to sell
one jar (\fB$/JAR\fR), total show cost, drive time, location, and date.
.SH GETTING STARTED
The three commands you need, in order:
.TP
.B 1. Install dependencies (once)
.B pip install -r requirements.txt
.TP
.B 2. Find and pick shows
.B python -m fnscraper --weeks 8
.br
Scrapes, then opens the picker. Your picks are saved to \fBreports/\fR.
.TP
.B 3. Download and fill vendor applications for your picks
.B python -m fnscraper apply
.br
Reads \fBreports/selected_shows.csv\fR and saves applications to
\fBapplications/\fR.
.SH USING THE PICKER
.TP
.B SPACE
Check / uncheck the show at the cursor.
.TP
.B UP / DOWN, PgUp / PgDn
Scroll the list.
.TP
.B ENTER
Save your checked shows and exit.
.TP
.B q
Quit without saving.
.SH COMMON OPTIONS
.TP
.BI --weeks " N"
How many weeks ahead to scan (default: 8).
.TP
.BI --states " STATE..."
Limit the crawl to specific states, e.g. \fB--states Ohio Pennsylvania\fR.
Default is every state within reach.
.TP
.BI --max-drive-hours " H"
One-way drive-time limit (default: 10).
.TP
.BI --top " N"
Number of events to show per weekend in the report (default: 5).
.TP
.BI --deadline-by " YYYY-MM-DD"
Only show events whose application deadline is still open on or before this
date.
.TP
.B --browse
Reopen the picker on the last scrape's results without hitting the network.
.TP
.B --refresh
Ignore the page cache and re-fetch everything.
.TP
.B --no-pick
Skip the picker; just print the list and write the reports.
.TP
.B -v, --verbose
Show detailed progress logging.
.SH THE BOOKING PLAN
.B python -m fnscraper best
answers "what should I book for the next three months?" in one command. For
every weekend in the window it picks the five most profitable shows still
open for applications and writes them as a CSV for the Jose Madrid Salsa
admin panel, under
.BR reports/josemadridsalsa/export <MMDDYY>- <MMDDYY>/ .
The stamps are the first and last event date in the file.
.PP
A show earns a slot only if it runs on a bookable day \(em Wed through Sun,
Fri/Sat/Sun preferred. Mon/Tue-only shows are dropped; shows missing the
prime days are ranked as if worth 30% less. Passed deadlines are dropped,
and one recurring market may hold at most two weekends.
.TP
.B \-\-months N
Months ahead to plan (default 3).
.TP
.B \-\-top N
Shows per weekend (default 5).
.TP
.B \-\-max\-repeats N
Weekends one recurring show may occupy (default 2).
.TP
.B \-\-cached
Re-plan from the last scrape instead of hitting the network. Returns in
about a second.
.TP
.B \-\-json
Print a machine-readable summary on stdout; progress goes to stderr. Used
by the website's export button.
.SH OUTPUT
Every full run writes to \fBreports/\fR:
.TP
.B selected_shows.xlsx / .csv / .md
Your picked shows with every data field (identity, dates, location,
attendance, fees, cost and profit estimates).
.TP
.B shortlist.md
A readable per-show summary with apply deadlines and links.
.TP
.B weekend_picks.md
Top picks for each upcoming weekend.
.TP
.B all_events.csv
Every scored event.
.TP
.B results.json
Saved results that power \fB--browse\fR.
.TP
.B josemadridsalsa/export<MMDDYY>-<MMDDYY>/
The booking plan written by \fBfnscraper best\fR: the import CSV plus a
\fBSPEC.md\fR documenting every column.
.SH CREDENTIALS
FestivalNet hides the useful details behind a Pro membership. When Pro
credentials are configured, fnscraper logs in and picks up the real booth
fee, per-track application deadlines, how and where to apply, the show and
exhibit director's name, phone and email, and the promoter's website.
Without a login those are estimated (flagged with \fB~\fR in reports and
\fB*\fR in the booking-plan CSV) or simply absent.
.PP
Credentials are read from a gitignored \fB.env\fR file in the project root:
.PP
.RS
.nf
FESTIVALNET_USER=your-username
FESTIVALNET_PASS=your-password
.fi
.RE
.PP
A real shell \fBexport\fR of the same variables overrides the file.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B .env
FestivalNet Pro credentials (gitignored).
.TP
.B vendor_profile.json
Your contact info used to auto-fill applications. Copy
\fBvendor_profile.example.json\fR to this name and edit it.
.TP
.B reports/
Generated reports and the saved results.
.TP
.B applications/
Downloaded and auto-filled vendor applications.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Longer horizon, more picks per weekend:
.B python -m fnscraper --weeks 12 --top 8
.TP
Tighter radius, only two states:
.B python -m fnscraper --states Ohio Pennsylvania --max-drive-hours 6
.TP
Only shows you can still apply to by month's end:
.B python -m fnscraper --deadline-by 2026-08-31
.TP
Re-open your last results without re-scraping:
.B python -m fnscraper --browse
.TP
Build the next three months of weekend bookings:
.B python -m fnscraper best
.TP
Rebuild the plan from the last scrape, six shows a weekend:
.B python -m fnscraper best --cached --top 6
.SH NOTES
Always review every auto-filled PDF before sending it to a promoter.
.SH SEE ALSO
Project README for the full scoring model and tuning knobs.
